# AP-42 Fifth Edition, Volume I
Estimación de la emisión de contaminantes 

## Heavy Construction Operations

Heavy construction is a source of dust emissions that may have substantial temporary impact on local air quality. Building and road construction are 2 examples of construction activities with high emissions potential. Emissions during the construction of a building or road can be associated with land clearing, drilling and blasting, ground excavation, cut and fill operations (i.e., earth moving), and construction of a particular facility itself. Dust emissions often vary substantially from day to day, depending on the level of activity, the specific operations, and the prevailing meteorological conditions.   A large portion of the emissions results from equipment traffic over temporary roads at the construction site.

The temporary nature of construction differentiates it from other fugitive dust sources as to estimation and control of emissions. Construction consists of a series of different operations, each with its own duration and potential for dust generation.   In other words, emissions from any single construction site can be expected (1) to have a definable beginning and an end and (2) to vary substantially over different phases of the construction process. This is in contrast to most other fugitive dust sources, where emissions are either relatively steady or follow a discernable annual cycle. Furthermore, there is often a need to estimate areawide construction emissions, without regard to the actual plans of any individual construction project. For these reasons, following are methods by which either areawide or site-specific emissions may be estimated.

The quantity of dust emissions from construction operations is proportional to the area of land being worked and to the level of construction activity. By analogy to the parameter dependence observed for other similar fugitive dust sources, one can expect emissions from heavy construction operations to be positively correlated with the silt content of the soil (that is, particles smaller than 75 micrometers [μm] in diameter), as well as with the speed and weight of the average vehicle, and to be negatively correlated with the soil moisture content.

For these reasons, it is strongly recommended that when emissions are to be estimated for a particular construction site, the construction process be broken down into component operations. (Note that many general contractors typically employ planning and scheduling tools, such as critical path method [CPM], that make use of different sequential operations to allocate resources.) This approach to emission estimation uses a unit or phase method to consider the more basic dust sources of vehicle travel and material handling. That is to say, the construction project is viewed as consisting of several operations, each involving traffic and material movements, and emission factors from other AP-42 sections are used to generate estimates. Table 13.2.3-1 displays the dust sources involved with construction, along with the recommended emission factors.

In addition to the on-site activities shown in Table 13.2.3-1, substantial emissions are possible because of material tracked out from the site and deposited on adjacent paved streets. Because all traffic passing the site (i. e., not just that associated with the construction) can resuspend the deposited material, this "secondary" source of emissions may be far more important than all the dust sources actually within the construction site. Furthermore, this secondary source will be present during all construction operations. Persons developing construction site emission estimates must consider the potential for increased adjacent emissions from off-site paved roadways (see Section 13.2.1, "Paved Roads"). High wind events also can lead to emissions from cleared land and material stockpiles. Section 13.2.5, "Industrial Wind Erosion", presents an estimation methodology that can be used for such sources at construction sites.

### Control Measures

Because of the relatively short-term nature of construction activities, some control measures are more cost effective than others. Wet suppression and wind speed reduction are 2 common methods used to control open dust sources at construction sites, because a source of water and material for wind barriers tend to be readily available on a construction site. However, several other forms of dust control are available.

Table 13.2.3-2 displays each of the preferred control measures, by dust source. Because most of the controls listed in the table modify independent variables in the emission factor models, the effectiveness can be calculated by comparing controlled and uncontrolled emission estimates from Table 13.2.3-1. Additional guidance on controls is provided in the AP-42 sections from which the recommended emission factors were taken, as well as in other documents, such as Reference 4.
